---
title: A Hare of a Problem
author: Ethan House
date: February 2, 2016
status: draft
---

With one final strike it was over. Howard the Formally-Truthful had fought his
last battle. His body lay shamefully where it had fallen moments ago, his face
torn and tattered. A gaping wound in his chest was rhythmically squirting blood
onto the floor. His party, capable of only staring surrounding his corpse. A
rabbit sat on Howerd's chest cleaning it's gore soaked fur.

### Some Back Story

I had decided I wanted to play a Monk in an upcoming game but came to the same
conclusion every Pathfinder player comes too. Monks suck. So I decided I was
going to make it fun any way possible.

What I decided on was a level 13 Monk with the Quinqong Archetype as well as the
Vow of Poverty, Vow of Truth, and the Vow of Fasting. What this meant is I could
have no wealth, never lie and only eat basic foods. This also meant I had a
metric load of Ki points a day. I could teleport and breath fire on top of
hitting up to 30 times in a single round. The problem was this build relied
heavily on good rolls for health and stats and I rolled like crap. Sure I could
hit 30 times a round but none of them were ever going to hit. I knew I was going
to die going into this, all I wanted was a hero's death. Anyway, onto the story.

### Deep in Another Dimension

The party entered the dimly lit room filled with torture equipment with all but
one empty. The one only device in use had a female rogue tied with her arms in
the air. She began yelling and struggling when the party came into view
desperate for their help. This was so obviously a trap the party ignored her
screams for help and began tearing the room apart. They found nothing that stood
out as unusual for a torture room in a magical alternate dimension.

Sure that the room was free of traps, at least of non magical traps the party
walked over to the capture rogue and tried to get her to speak. She seemed only
capable of begging to be set free and wouldn't respond to any of their
questions.

"Fine then!" the Monk said and walked over to her shackles and grabbed them
firmly. He pulled weekly and his footing began to slip but he attempted to hide
this with loud grunting which sounded more like a duck then a man and fake shows
of force which would embarrass even a child. This abysmal show of force went
unnoticed by everyone except for one entity in the universe. This entity sat
adopt his golden throne watching creatures toil in their daily lives from high
above in an unseen dimension. He noticed this one Monk in particular break one
of it's holyiest of vows in a thinly vailed attempt to save face.

"Normally I'd give you a second chance" the god thought to himself "except now
I'm embarrassed to have you as a follower. I'm going to teach you a lesson and
get a good story to tell the guys tonight over a few tankards of mead". He
chuckled to himself and with a flick of his wrist obliterated the tie the Monk
had with it's own life force.

The monk despite lying about it was still able to pull the chains and the rogue
out of the wall and stumbled backwards. He felt his life drain out of him and
just stood there in total shock at how much he had just screwed up. The Rogue
began to thank the Monk but was interrupted by the crackle of a summoning. A
Bone Devil flashed into existence barely 5 feet from where the monk stood and it
drove it's tail into the monks back 3 times. Each time it pulled back blood and
flesh flew into the air covering the Bone Devil and walls in gore. The monk fell
forward like a tree being felled and landed on his face with a thud. Blood began
pooling around his body and the Bone Devil went in for a second round of
beatings.

Meanwhile the Druid had an idea, a terrible idea. He focused on the Bone Devil
looming over the Monk and case Baleful Polymorph. In an instant the blood soaked
bone monster became a bunny rabbit. Without missing a beat the rabbit jumped at
the Monks throat and began tearing with it's vicious teeth. A choking sound
could be heard as the Monk finally succumbed to the abuse and drowned on his own
fluids. The party sat around dumbfounded as to what they had witnessed.

The Druid was first to act, yelling "Mine!" while throwing his body on top of
the rabbit and the corpse of his friend. With a death grip around the rabbit's
neck he began petting it with enough force to crush a normal rabbit. The monk is
long gone but what's the sense in losing our front line man reasoned the Druid.
The party nodded in agreement and trotted through to the next room.

---

The Monk stood up straight watching the sun rise over the distant mountain. It
was peaceful, serene. He had always appreciate the smaller aspect of life, the
birds singing or the beautiful display of colors of the setting sun. In a more
normal situation he would have sat down and painted the vista before him.

"Well, you died like you lived. A petty excuse of a monk and a even pettier
excuse of a follower. I do commend you on sticking to your believes up until the
end but to lose it all for something so trivial. It's hilarious!"

The Monk had not pictured this unfolding quite like it was. Standing before a
god laughing at your abject failures. He was somewhere between humiliation and
shock. This very well might be what Hell felt like.

"I've decided to give you a second chance. Go back to the world of men and prove
to me that you aren't a total waste of space."

---

The Monk sat upright trying to take in the world around him. It felt different,
alien. There was a constant pressure he felt on his body but he wasn't able to
identify it. He struggled to release the pressure but it only made it more
intense. He tried to shake it off but found he was unable to move his arms. He
opened his eyes and took in the world for the first time in his new body.

He looked down onto to meet eyes with mangled face of his previous body.

No, This is what Hell feels like.
