---
title: Wrath of the Lich Witch Part 1
author: Ethan House
date: November 24, 2014
summary: A side quest I ran when we were down a few players turned into one of the more exciting game's I've GM'ed.
---

## Side Quest

Everyone was absent, so I decided to run a one-off I've been cooking in my head. It went better than expected.

#### Players

 - Frank : Arron the Ranger
 - Alex : Unnamed the Rouge (pronounced UnA-med)
 - Will : Kristof the Fighter
 - Rob (AFK) : Orana the Witch
 - Derek (AFK) : Belanthas the Cleric

## The Adventure Begins...

#### At the Rusty Dragon

The party relaxed after their long trip back from their previous adventure.
Killing and pillaging is hard work after all. Aminko, the owner of the Rusty
Dragon, walked over and handed a package to Belanthas, the party Cleric. "This
showed up for you a while ago. No idea who it's from. Just left on my door step.
Weird, they knew you'd be here." Just as confused as Aminko as to why he would
have a package here, he ripped open the box to reveal an ornate and intricate
flask. The bottle was made out of a clear glass and adorned with gold and gems.
The flask ebbed and flowed with magical energy as the wispy content churned
inside the bottle.

Orana, the wise old witch, was overcome with curiosity and tore the bottle from
Belanthas's hands, popped the cork from the bottle and lifted it to her nose.
The purple smoke rose out of the bottle and into Orana's lungs. Her eyes rolled
back into her head and she hit the ground with a thump. The bottle, now empty of
the gaseous fluid, rolled onto the floor and under a table. Kristof, knowing
this was going to be trouble, grabbed the now passed out witch and dragged her
upstairs. He tied Orana to the bed to ensure she wouldn't do any wandering. The
party gathered their things and headed off to the chapel knowing Father Chuckles
would have an idea. Belanthas decided he was going to sit this adventure out and
nurse his wounds from the previous few days.

#### Out and About in Sandpoint
Upon their arrival, Father Chuckles was not happy to see this select group of
men in his Chapel. The party held up the vial for the Father to see and asked
what it was. The Father studied the bottle for a moment abd became livid.

"Leave at once!" yelled the Father. "Take that contraption away from my church!"

The party continued to throw questions at the Father as he began pushing them
out the door.

"It's a Lich's phylactery and I will not be having you bunch causing any more
trouble. Out! Out!"

The Father got quiet as the party headed towards the door, distraught and
defeated.

"Wait! I'll help. What business do you have with the device and why did you
bring it here?"

Arron stepped forward. "Our 'Friend' decided to use it as an inhalant. She's
currently passed out and tied to a bed. We just want to make sure nothing is
seriously wrong with Orana."

"Come, let me take a look," sighed the tired old monk.

#### Back at the Rusty Dragon

"Ok, guys. I've talked to you about this," Aminko said blocking the party from
climbing the steps to their personal rooms. "I don't want live animals in the
rooms. You've got to pen them up outside. They're up there making a racket and
my usuals are complaining."

Kristof quickly blurted an apology and sprinted past Aminko with the rest of the
party. Behind the door the party was greeted by their worst fears. The room had
been trashed. The bed was broken in half and discarded by the door and the
window was wide open. The party didn't see any signs of the monster they
accidentally helped create.

"Well then. You'd best be off to find her." quirked the Father.

"Would you assist us on this wild goose chase? I'm sure you are quite skilled at
Lich tracking," Kristof asked. The old man shook his head.

"I'm no fighter. In my youth I would gladly have joined you. I will return to my
study and read up on magic that may help. If you are able to trap it, find me
and I will do what I can to save your friend."

He headed down the stairs and out of sight as fast as his frail legs could take
him. The party, having no idea where to start, decided to check out the
abandoned glass works as it would be a perfect place to hide for the Lich.

#### With the Heroes of Sandpoint

The party broke into the glassworks and headed down to the basement. They were
immediately met with an impassible wall built by the Paladins who had chased
them away not a few weeks prior. Frustrated and of ideas they began walking back
to the Rusty Dragon. In the distance, over at the trading district, they heard
screaming and saw clouds of smoke billowing into the sky. "Found her," sighed
Kristof. Already assuming the wors,t they walked to the market district ready to
play damage control. The crowd was dense with onlookers wondering what all the
commotion was about. The party pushed themselves to the front of the crowd and
found a smashed fine china cart and hysterical salesaen holding the fractured
pieces.

"She came out of no where!" he cried. "I couldn't stop her. My entire life's
work smashed to pieces before my eyes!"

"Did you see where she went, we're trying to find her?" asked Arron. The
salesman was too hysterical to respond.

"Wait!" cried someone in the crowd, "it's the heroes of Sandpoint."

"It is them! You saved us from the goblins!" cried another. The crowd quickly
lost interest in the flaming china cart and began circling the party chanting
"Heroes of Sandpoint". The party was lifted into the air and paraded around.
"Heroes of Sandpoint," everyone chanted in unison. The party desperately tried
to get as much useful information out of the crowd as they could, despite the
fact nothing could be heard over the cheering and chanting. After a few minutes
they were put back on the ground and the chanting changed to "Kill the monster!"

Kristof lost his patience and yelled as loud as he could, "We will kill the
monster, but we need to know where it is headed." Someone in the crowd pointed
over the town's walls to the Tick Forest in the Hinterlands.

"It headed off in that direction, towards the old forest." The crowd began
moving towards the front pushing the party as it went. The heroes mounted their
horses and ponies and rode off into the hills anxious for the battle that was
soon to come. The chanting could still be heard as the town disappeared from
view.

#### Within the Tickwood Forest

The party rode through the hillside and into the sparse outer forest. The dense
forest was fresh with new growth but was surprisingly quiet.

"This doesn't seem right, everyone hold up," Arron said stopping the party. He
rode on further and scouted the area looking for goblins which were common in
the area. Fifty or so feet directly ahead of the party they saw a cart and horse
pulled off to the side of the road. Little green creatures scurried around it.
They were throwing things in the air and trying to be as loud as possible. It
seemed that the caravan was being robbed by goblins. There was a tallish figure
being held at sword point towards the back of the cart. Arron quickly rode back
and reported what he saw. A plan of attack was put together and the party began
spreading out. Everyone slowly approach the goblins hoping to catch a straggler
by surprise and surround it. Bows at the ready, the three men fired at the
closest goblins hoping for quick kills. Arron threw a smoke bomb towards the
cart. Arron, with his personal hatred of the little green monsters, ran towards
the cart and quickly dispatched three goblins. A few minutes later most of the
goblins had been dealt with and the rest were retreating into the forest.

The party approached the caravan and were met by an elvish woman who introduced
herself as Thalijen. Off by the corner of the wagon the two goblins who had had
her by sword point were notably dead and bloody. She jumped into the back of the
wagon and attempted to wake up her robed friend. "He was knocked out when the
goblins ambushed us," she said. "He woke up in a haze, mumbling something about
witches and demons. Well once again I am Thalijen and this is my friend Thyme.
We are adventurers out in search for a Lich that recently flew this way.
Guessing by your dress you are also on a similar quest." The party nodded in
unison. "Well then it would only make sense to team up and deal with this Lich
together," she said rather enthusiastically considering her recent encounter
with goblins.

And with that the newly formed party was off.

To be continued in [Part 2](/posts/wrath-of-the-lich-witch-part-2.html).
