.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd June 22, 2018               \" DATE
.Dt KACKLE 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.An Ethan House (ehouse@fastmail.com)
.Os
.Sh NAME          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm kackle
.Nd Simple bash static site generator \" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Fl b Ar target
.Op Fl e Ar theme.html
.Op Fl o Ar out/
.Nm
.Fl r Ar target
.Op Fl T Ar title
.Op Fl o Ar out/
.Nm
.Fl f Ar target
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl N Ar sitename
.Op Fl o Ar out/
.Nm
.Fl s
.Nm
.Fl p

.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Kackle is a simple static site generator with minimal dependencies in mind
during development. Static sites can be setup in minutes and deployed via rysnc
to any webserver. Never worry that a OS/Language update will break your build
process, if it works now it'll work in a few years too.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
All of the following groups are mutually exclusive.

.Ss Creating a New Template Project
New Kackle projects come with a src/, a statics/, and a theme/ folder. They
contain the entire site, it's content and finally how it'll look when built. 
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl s
Create a new project from a skeleton default. Comes with lots of defaults that
should be modified for your use.
.El                       \" Ends the list

.Ss Generate a New Post
A quick macro for generating a new site page.
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl p
Interactive menu for creating a new page under the ./drafts/ folder.
.El                       \" Ends the list

.Ss Generate a Blogroll   \" Start sub-header for Blogroll
A blogroll is a rolling index page of all the content in the folder, organized
by it's publish date. After walking the directory a index.md file is generated
with all of the posts and their summar.
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl r Ar target
Recurse through folder creating a blogroll of each post found within the
folder. The blogroll will be written out to a index.html file.
.It Op Fl T Ar title
Set blogroll page title to custom string. This custom string is what appears as
the post header for the blogroll page generated.
.It Op Fl o Ar out/
Set output destination folder
.El                       \" Ends the list

.Ss Build a Site          \" Start sub-header for Building
Walk the directory of the folder, building all .md files into .html when
discovered.
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl b Ar target
Recurse through folder compiling markdown files to html
.It Op Fl e Ar theme.html
Override default theme with custom file. Check out the skeleton project for an
example of a working theme file.
.It Op Fl o Ar out/
Set output destination folder
.El                       \" Ends the list
.Ss Finalize the Site     \" Start sub-header for Finalizing
The final steps to take when deploying a Kackle site for public use. Generate a
sitemap of all publicly accessible pages, generate a rebots.txt to prevent
crawling of hidden pages. Finally compress css and html content to minimize
site the sites footprint on disk.
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl f Ar target
Recurse through folder compiling markdown to html
.It Fl N Ar sitename
Set sitemap sitename for sitemap
.It Op Fl t
Flag to enable production level settings for final site building. Setting will
enable site compression and generation of sitemap.
.It Op Fl o Ar out/
Set output destination folder
.El                       \" Ends the list

.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Fl   \" Begins a tagged list
.It Fl x Ar file
Exclude listed files or folders from target operation. Works for Blogroll,
Building, and Finalization. Can be repeated any number of times. Default value
is the /priv folder.
.It Fl v
Verbose output
.It Fl h
Print help document
.It Fl d
Set bash -x tracing mode. Incredibly verbose
.El                      \" Ends the list

.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width 20n -compact
.It Pa ./src/kackle.sh
Primary source file of Kackle
.It Pa ./src/lib
Collection of library files which are compiled into Kackle. Baked into kackle.sh when building the project.
.It Pa ./src/lib/config.sh
Project wide defaults for Kackle. Customize for your own personal use before baking into the project.
.It Pa ./skel
Base skeleton project to be copied when -s is used
.El                      \" Ends the list
