title: Wrath of the Lich Witch: Part 2
date: 11-3-16
category: dnd-story
summary: The final showdown between the brave adventurers and the evil Lich. One thing is for certain, no one is getting out of this without some bruises and a good story.
status: draft

If you missed it you should read [Part 1](/wrath-of-the-lich-witch-part-1.html) first.

## The epic showdown

What the party didn't realize I was twitching to kill someone. I really missed
the look of utter defeat in the players' eyes when they realize they're doomed
to die. The cards were stacked against them.


## The Adventure  Continues...
### Hot on the trail

The party continued riding through the forest following the trail of destruction
left by their lichified friend. Trees lay to side tossed away carelessly like
crumpled up paper. Up to their necks in work to fix this mess, they rode hard
for a few hours until the sun began to set over the mountains.

Finally they came upon a clearing with a tower looming eerily in the distance.
The lich- wrecked path led the party there so their bright minds told them the
soulless creature had to be there as well. Knowing very well they were probably
walking into an ambush the party slowly approached the tower. Despite the simple
architect, the odd placement, and the complete lack of noise from the forest
around the atmosphere was unnerving at best. Keeping their wits about them the
party stood in front of the large wood door blocking their path.

"Do we knock?" Kristof asked, raising his fist to the door. Arron quickly
grabbed his hand and pulled him aside. Arron took point at the door and signaled
the party to line up behind him. They were all going in, the only question was
how many would leave. In the distance a flock of crows took to the sky only
confirming the danger and carnage they were about to walk into.

### Preparing for battle

Arron pushed open the door and walked in slowly with his sword drawn and ready.
The rest of the group followed closely behind. The tower, clearly abandoned
years ago, left nothing to steal but dusty broken shelves and long abandoned
cobwebs. Old wooden crates littered the floor with worthless splinters.

Staying in a single file line the group headed up the spiral staircase. It took
them up through the ceiling into a bedroom of sorts. The room's fate was similar
to the storage room below but with a thick wood door at the top of the stairs.
Wear and tear on the locking mechanism and the boot prints on the door showed
others had tried to force the door open with little to no avail.

"Guys, I've got this," Unnamed proudly proclaimed. He pulled out this thieves
tools and went to work on the door. He began to look frustrated at his lack of
progress. A few minutes went before the lock clicked open. "Good, doors open".

"This should be the final floor. What ever happens everyone stay together. We'll
take on Orana together." Arron said addressing the group.

"Keep me safe, I will try to cast a spell to remove the evil from within Orana.
I doubt the monster will take kindly to this action" Belanthas said fearfully.

"Oh year, sure. I have not once seen you case a useful spell." Frank said
rolling his eyes. I honestly doubt you will be much use here. Our friend is no
more. Let's put her out of her own misery and be done with this.

"Let's at least humor the priest." Alex said wishing to solve the issue with
minimal violence. The 5 of them had been through a lot. He almost couldn't
handle the thought of having to kill one of his close friends.

"OK, current plan I'm thinking is to throw as much fire as possible on her. That
should keep her plenty distracted while Derek performs the spell. I'll of course
play party medic and keep you bastards alive. Will, you should harass her as
much as possible with your bow. Stay out of reach of her claws at all costs. I
don't want to have to sew arms back on. Any questions?". Frank began pulling out
Alchemist Fires and handing them out like candy.

The rest of the party was too enamored with the Alchemist Fire to disagree with
Frank.

### Into the breach

They lined up behind the last door. This was it, either they walked out of here
with Rob or they didn't walk out of here at all. All or nothing.

"Everyone ready?" Frank waited for any questions and when he saw none threw open
the door with all of his might. The door popped off of it's hinges and fell into
the room, taking frank and Derek with it. Will and Alex, much lighter on there
feet were able to stay upright and charged into the room Alchemist Fire at the
ready.

In the middle of the bedroom the Lich floated above a series or runes and cold
blue fire.

The party run into the room and dove behind the largest pieces of debris they
could find. One by one they all threw there Alchemists Fire potions at the
monster. The Lich had up to this point not taken it's adversaries seriously.
More excited to have lives to toy with.

### Mistakes and Fire

Things went bad almost immediately. Frank attempted to release an arrow right
into the Lich's temple but the bowstring snapped and sent the arrow skidding off
into a corner. Slackwill was able to send an arrow and actually strike his
target, hitting the lich in the chest. The lich began laughing at their attacks
started dancing around the room and throwing an ice bolt towards the party with
no real eagerness. Alex, cooking up his own plan in his head, threw the
Alchemist Fire at the lich. The lich up to this point understood that these poor
excuses for adventures were no match and was playing with them. Playtime ended
the moment it was engulfed in fire.
